Gasless chapter (On-Chain Signer + GSN) (#445)
oasisprotocol/docs: docs/dapp/sapphire/gsn.md

---
description: CLI instructions for deploying GSN on Sapphire Testnet
---
# Gas Station Network

[Gas Station Network](https://docs.opengsn.org) is very useful for improving user experiences of many Dapps by making their users send transactions without having native tokens for gas. We make GSN functionalities available on Sapphire Paratime.

### Package Install

> Starting with an empty folder, let us install the GSN command line tool by using the following commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with an empty folder, let us install the [Oasis fork] of the GSN command line tool by using the following commands:
```

Can you also cleanup and merge https://github.com/oasislabs/gsn/pull/1 so we have a fork publicly ready? We do need a fork and upstream GSN doesn't work with Sapphire right?

```shell
npm init -y
npm install --save-dev @oasislabs/opengsn-cli 
```

> ### Deploy GSN Contracts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Oasis fork]: https://github.com/oasislabs/gsn

### Deploy GSN Contracts
```

We can deploy GSN contracts by the following command. Remember to replace with your own private key and account address in it.

```shell
npx gsn deploy --network sapphire_testnet --burnAddress 0xfA3AC9f65C9D75EE3978ab76c6a1105f03156204 --devAddress 0xfA3AC9f65C9D75EE3978ab76c6a1105f03156204 --testToken true --testPaymaster true --yes --privateKeyHex '8a61cab2fd89c40c0f87275f2547bf0139fe78c4aa37eed0ee4357ce88033aae'
```

After the command finishes successfully, you should find the addreses of deployed contracts at the end:

> ```shell

Reviewer: `shell` block type should only be used for commands that can be copied&pasted directly into the command line.

```suggestion
```
```

  Paymaster (Default): 0x8C06261f58a024C958d42df89be7195c8690008d
```

### Start GSN Relay Server

Now we are ready to start our own relay server locally or publicly by using the following command:

```shell
npx gsn relayer-run --relayHubAddress 0xc4423AB6133B06e4e60D594Ac49abE53374124b3 --managerStakeTokenAddress  0x6Ed21672c0c26Daa32943F7b1cA1f1d0ABdbac66 --ownerAddress '0xfA3AC9f65C9D75EE3978ab76c6a1105f03156204' --ethereumNodeUrl 'https://testnet.sapphire.oasis.dev' --workdir .
```

Remember to replace the `relayHubAddress` and `managerStakeTokenAddress` with your newly deployed addresses of RelayHub and TestToken contracts.

### Fund and Register GSN Relay Server

The first thing is to fund your relay server so that it has enough native tokens to pay for others' transactions:

```shell
npx gsn paymaster-fund --network sapphire_testnet --hub 0xc4423AB6133B06e4e60D594Ac49abE53374124b3 --paymaster 0x8C06261f58a024C958d42df89be7195c8690008d --privateKeyHex '8a61cab2fd89c40c0f87275f2547bf0139fe78c4aa37eed0ee4357ce88033aae' --amount 5000000000000000000
```

Then, we need to register the relay server with the your desired `relayUrl` by staking the `token` the relayHub requires.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```shell
npx gsn relayer-register --network sapphire_testnet --relayUrl 'http://localhost:8090' --token 0x6Ed21672c0c26Daa32943F7b1cA1f1d0ABdbac66 --wrap true --privateKeyHex '8a61cab2fd89c40c0f87275f2547bf0139fe78c4aa37eed0ee4357ce88033aae'
```

After this step, your relay server should be ready to take incoming relay requests and then forward to the relayHub on Sapphire Testnet.

### Send Testing Relayed Requests:

We can test whether a relayed request can be forwarded and processed correctly by using the following command:

```shell
npx gsn send-request --network sapphire_testnet --abiFile 'node_modules/@oasislabs/opengsn-cli/dist/compiled/TestRecipient.json' --method emitMessage --methodParams 'hello world!' --to 0x594cd6354b23A5200a57355072E2A5B15354ee21 --paymaster 0x8C06261f58a024C958d42df89be7195c8690008d --privateKeyHex '8a61cab2fd89c40c0f87275f2547bf0139fe78c4aa37eed0ee4357ce88033aae' --from 0xfA3AC9f65C9D75EE3978ab76c6a1105f03156204 --gasLimit 150000 --gasPrice 100
```

> Note: More detailed explanations of these GSN commands and parameters can be found at the [ethereum GSN](https://docs.opengsn.org/javascript-client/gsn-helpers.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::info

More detailed explanations of these GSN commands and parameters can be found at the [Ethereum GSN](https://docs.opengsn.org/javascript-client/gsn-helpers.html).

:::
```

---

> description: CLI instructions for deploying GSN on Sapphire Testnet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: CLI instructions for deploying GSN on Sapphire
```

---
# Gas Station Network

> [Gas Station Network](https://docs.opengsn.org) is very useful for improving user experiences of many Dapps by making their users send transactions without having native tokens for gas. We make GSN functionalities available on Sapphire Paratime.

Reviewer: There is a standard "vocabulary" for terms such as dApp and ParaTime so they are consistent across the docs: https://github.com/oasisprotocol/docs/blob/main/README.md#vocabulary

```suggestion
[Gas Station Network](https://docs.opengsn.org) is very useful for improving user experiences of many dApps by making their users send transactions without having native tokens for gas. We make GSN functionalities available on Sapphire ParaTime.
```

> [Gas Station Network](https://docs.opengsn.org) is very useful for improving user experiences of many dApps by making their users send transactions without having native tokens for gas. We make GSN functionalities available on Sapphire ParaTime.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Gas Station Network](https://docs.opengsn.org) is very useful for improving the user experience of many dApps by making their users send transactions without having native tokens for gas. We make GSN functionalities available on Sapphire ParaTime.
```

### Package Install

> Starting with an empty folder, let us install the [Oasis fork](https://github.com/oasislabs/gsn) of the GSN command line tool by using the following commands:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with an empty folder, let us install the [Oasis fork of the GSN command line tool](https://github.com/oasislabs/gsn) by using the following commands:
```

```shell
npm init -y
npm install --save-dev @oasislabs/opengsn-cli 
```

> 

Reviewer: Let's not put any private keys in our docs. Addresses are fine.

```suggestion
Next, we will export our hex-encoded private key for deploying the gas station network as an environment variable:

```sh
export PRIVATE_KEY=0x...
```
```

### Deploy GSN Contracts

> We can deploy GSN contracts by the following command. Remember to replace with your own private key and account address in it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We can deploy GSN contracts with the following command. Use the address of your account for `--burnAddress` and `--devAddress`, and your private key for `--privateKeyHex`:
```

```shell

> npx gsn deploy --network sapphire_testnet --burnAddress 0xfA3AC9f65C9D75EE3978ab76c6a1105f03156204 --devAddress 0xfA3AC9f65C9D75EE3978ab76c6a1105f03156204 --testToken true --testPaymaster true --yes --privateKeyHex '8a61cab2fd89c40c0f87275f2547bf0139fe78c4aa37eed0ee4357ce88033aae'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npx gsn deploy --network sapphire_testnet --burnAddress 0xfA3AC9f65C9D75EE3978ab76c6a1105f03156204 --devAddress 0xfA3AC9f65C9D75EE3978ab76c6a1105f03156204 --testToken true --testPaymaster true --yes --privateKeyHex $PRIVATE_KEY
```

```

After the command finishes successfully, you should find the addreses of deployed contracts at the end:

```
  Deployed TestRecipient at address 0x594cd6354b23A5200a57355072E2A5B15354ee21
  
  RelayHub: 0xc4423AB6133B06e4e60D594Ac49abE53374124b3 
  RelayRegistrar: 0x196036FBeC1dA841C60145Ce12b0c66078e141E6
  StakeManager: 0x6763c3fede9EBBCFbE4FEe6a4DE6C326ECCdacFc
  Penalizer: 0xA58A0D302e470490c064EEd5f752Df4095d3A002
  Forwarder: 0x59001d07a1Cd4836D22868fcc0dAf3732E93be81
  TestToken (test only): 0x6Ed21672c0c26Daa32943F7b1cA1f1d0ABdbac66
  Paymaster (Default): 0x8C06261f58a024C958d42df89be7195c8690008d
```

### Start GSN Relay Server

> Now we are ready to start our own relay server locally or publicly by using the following command:

Reviewer: What do you mean locally or publicly? I noticed it is listening on port `8090`, but is it listening on the `localhost` or `0.0.0.0`? What parameter do you need to define the http service address it will be listening on?

> Now we are ready to start our own relay server locally or publicly by using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now we are ready to start our own relay server locally or publicly by using the following command. Use the newly deployed `RelayHub` and `TestToken` contract addresses for `--relayHubAddress` and `--managerStakeTokenAddress` respectively.
```

```shell
npx gsn relayer-run --relayHubAddress 0xc4423AB6133B06e4e60D594Ac49abE53374124b3 --managerStakeTokenAddress  0x6Ed21672c0c26Daa32943F7b1cA1f1d0ABdbac66 --ownerAddress '0xfA3AC9f65C9D75EE3978ab76c6a1105f03156204' --ethereumNodeUrl 'https://testnet.sapphire.oasis.dev' --workdir .
```

> Remember to replace the `relayHubAddress` and `managerStakeTokenAddress` with your newly deployed addresses of RelayHub and TestToken contracts.

Reviewer: Let's move this notice above for consistency.

```suggestion
```

### Fund and Register GSN Relay Server

> The first thing is to fund your relay server so that it has enough native tokens to pay for others' transactions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first thing is to fund your relay server so that it has enough native tokens to pay for others' transactions. Let's fund the paymaster with 5 tokens. Use the `RelayHub` and `Paymaster` addresses for `--hub` and `--paymaster` values:
```

```shell

> npx gsn paymaster-fund --network sapphire_testnet --hub 0xc4423AB6133B06e4e60D594Ac49abE53374124b3 --paymaster 0x8C06261f58a024C958d42df89be7195c8690008d --privateKeyHex '8a61cab2fd89c40c0f87275f2547bf0139fe78c4aa37eed0ee4357ce88033aae' --amount 5000000000000000000

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npx gsn paymaster-fund --network sapphire_testnet --hub 0xc4423AB6133B06e4e60D594Ac49abE53374124b3 --paymaster 0x8C06261f58a024C958d42df89be7195c8690008d --privateKeyHex $PRIVATE_KEY --amount 5000000000000000000
```

```

> Then, we need to register the relay server with the your desired `relayUrl` by staking the `token` the relayHub requires.

Reviewer: I don't really understand this sentence. What needs to be registered where?

Author: the parameter `relayUrl` answers your previous question, " What parameter do you need to define the http service address it will be listening on?"

```shell

> npx gsn relayer-register --network sapphire_testnet --relayUrl 'http://localhost:8090' --token 0x6Ed21672c0c26Daa32943F7b1cA1f1d0ABdbac66 --wrap true --privateKeyHex '8a61cab2fd89c40c0f87275f2547bf0139fe78c4aa37eed0ee4357ce88033aae'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npx gsn relayer-register --network sapphire_testnet --relayUrl 'http://localhost:8090' --token 0x6Ed21672c0c26Daa32943F7b1cA1f1d0ABdbac66 --wrap true --privateKeyHex $PRIVATE_KEY
```

```

> After this step, your relay server should be ready to take incoming relay requests and then forward to the relayHub on Sapphire Testnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After this step, your relay server should be ready to take incoming relay requests and forward them to the relay hub on Sapphire Testnet.
```

### Send Testing Relayed Requests:

We can test whether a relayed request can be forwarded and processed correctly by using the following command:

```shell

> npx gsn send-request --network sapphire_testnet --abiFile 'node_modules/@oasislabs/opengsn-cli/dist/compiled/TestRecipient.json' --method emitMessage --methodParams 'hello world!' --to 0x594cd6354b23A5200a57355072E2A5B15354ee21 --paymaster 0x8C06261f58a024C958d42df89be7195c8690008d --privateKeyHex '8a61cab2fd89c40c0f87275f2547bf0139fe78c4aa37eed0ee4357ce88033aae' --from 0xfA3AC9f65C9D75EE3978ab76c6a1105f03156204 --gasLimit 150000 --gasPrice 100

Reviewer: ```suggestion
npx gsn send-request --network sapphire_testnet --abiFile 'node_modules/@oasislabs/opengsn-cli/dist/compiled/TestRecipient.json' --method emitMessage --methodParams 'hello world!' --to 0x594cd6354b23A5200a57355072E2A5B15354ee21 --paymaster 0x8C06261f58a024C958d42df89be7195c8690008d --privateKeyHex $PRIVATE_KEY --from 0xfA3AC9f65C9D75EE3978ab76c6a1105f03156204 --gasLimit 150000 --gasPrice 100
```

> npx gsn send-request --network sapphire_testnet --abiFile 'node_modules/@oasislabs/opengsn-cli/dist/compiled/TestRecipient.json' --method emitMessage --methodParams 'hello world!' --to 0x594cd6354b23A5200a57355072E2A5B15354ee21 --paymaster 0x8C06261f58a024C958d42df89be7195c8690008d --privateKeyHex '8a61cab2fd89c40c0f87275f2547bf0139fe78c4aa37eed0ee4357ce88033aae' --from 0xfA3AC9f65C9D75EE3978ab76c6a1105f03156204 --gasLimit 150000 --gasPrice 100

Reviewer: While this is fine as a proof of concept, we would need a more complete frontend app (React/VueJS?) showing best practices for using Sapphire GSN in the product. Would you be up to add such app to the [playground](https://github.com/oasisprotocol/playground) repo? Keep in mind that developer audience from OPL will come here to learn about GSN as an alternative to the existing bridge.

Author: let us track this comment separately in another task. https://app.clickup.com/t/866a7mk4z

```

:::info

More detailed explanations of these GSN commands and parameters can be found at the [ethereum GSN](https://docs.opengsn.org/javascript-client/gsn-helpers.html).

> 

Reviewer 2: It is worth noting that for privacy, transactions sent via the GSN Relay to the RelayHub contract are end-to-end encrypted so the transaction inputs remain confidential (relayer doesn't know which contract you're interacting with, and cannot censor your transactions)

Author: We can add this in the following PRs, since the main goal of this one to provide the basic instructions.

```

Then, we need to register the relay server with the your desired `relayUrl` by staking the `token` the relayHub requires.

```shell
npx gsn relayer-register --network sapphire_testnet --relayUrl 'http://localhost:8090' --token 0x6Ed21672c0c26Daa32943F7b1cA1f1d0ABdbac66 --wrap true --privateKeyHex $PRIVATE_KEY
```

After this step, your relay server should be ready to take incoming relay requests and forward them to the relay hub on Sapphire Testnet.

### Send Testing Relayed Requests:

We can test whether a relayed request can be forwarded and processed correctly by using the following command:

```shell
npx gsn send-request --network sapphire_testnet --abiFile 'node_modules/@oasislabs/opengsn-cli/dist/compiled/TestRecipient.json' --method emitMessage --methodParams 'hello world!' --to 0x594cd6354b23A5200a57355072E2A5B15354ee21 --paymaster 0x8C06261f58a024C958d42df89be7195c8690008d --privateKeyHex $PRIVATE_KEY --from 0xfA3AC9f65C9D75EE3978ab76c6a1105f03156204 --gasLimit 150000 --gasPrice 100
```

:::info

> More detailed explanations of these GSN commands and parameters can be found at the [ethereum GSN](https://docs.opengsn.org/javascript-client/gsn-helpers.html).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More detailed explanations of these GSN commands and parameters can be found on the [upstream OpenGSN website](https://docs.opengsn.org/javascript-client/gsn-helpers.html).
```
